RELEASE NOTES 2017-07-26

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 7.0.6:

    Updated recommended Intel compiler flags (user guide section E6).

    Fixed a bug affecting --stop-after on some SLES 11 systems.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 7.0.5:

    Fix a conflict with the Cray C++ STL library when using static linking.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 7.0.4:

    Fix an issue with dlsym under IBM Spectrum MPI that affected profiling of hybrid MPI+OpenMP codes.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 7.0.3:

    Improve ANSYS Fluent support.

    Fix issue with the custom metrics example.
    
Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 7.0.2:

    New I/O functions tracked: pread_nocancel and pwrite_nocancel.

    Add auto-detection support for PlatformMPI 9.1.4.2.
    
    Add MP_IN_PLACE and MPI_BOTTOM support to SGI MPT wrappers.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 7.0.1:

    Call allinea_plugin_cleanup in custom metrics at the end of a profiling job.

    Make a "onePerNode" attribute available for custom metrics that should only collect
    one process of each node.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 7.0:

    Custom Metrics for Performance Reports - add your own custom site- or application-specific metrics to Performance Reports.

    Add Lustre metadata metrics to the Advanced Metrics Pack add-on.

    Allow profiling of programs that use MPI_THREAD_MULTIPLE and MPI_THREAD_SERIALIZED (MPI calls
    tracked on main thread only).
    
    Provide module files to simplify static and dynamic linking of the Allinea profiler libraries
    on the Cray (in share/modules/cray).

    Performance Reports can now be generated in JSON format for use with continuous integration and
    regression testing systems.

    Categorise OpenACC-CUDA functions as GPU functions.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.1.2:

    Performance Reports:
      I/O metrics are not available on some systems, including Cray systems.
      CPU instruction metrics are only available on x86_64 systems.
      Thread activity is not sampled whilst a process is inside an MPI call
      with a duration spanning multiple samples.

    MPICH 3:
      MPICH 3.0.3 and 3.0.4 did not work with the Allinea Performance Reports
      due to an MPICH defect. MPICH 3.1 addressed this and is fully supported.

    SLURM:
      On Cray X-series systems only 'native' SLURM is supported - 'hybrid' mode is
      not supported.

    PGI compilers:
      Version 14.9 or later of the PGI compilers is required to compile the
      Allinea MAP MPI wrappers as a static library.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.1.1:

    Fix a case where standard input would not be forwarded during
    non-interactive sessions when the source was a file on a Lustre filesystem.

    Add support for profiling programs where all MPI communication takes place
    on a single non-main thread.

    Fix an issue where CUDA runtime and driver version mismatches were sometimes
    silently ignored.

    Fix an issue that prevented the graphical installer from working on Suse 12

    Remove the temporary .build directories for the precompiled MPI wrappers.

    Fix crash on startup for Cray systems with an old version of wlm_detect.

    Fix multiple compilers being used to compile MPI wrappers.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.1:

    Profiling support for Knights Landing (KNL) Xeon Phi product family.

    Support for CUDA 8.0.

    Enable CUDA support on POWER.

    Preloading the Allinea profiler libraries is now supported for dynamically
    linked programs on Cray X-Series / Cray MPT systems.

    Preloading the Allinea profiler libraries when using Slurm versions older than
    14.11 is now supported.

    Precompiled Allinea MPI wrappers are now provided for OpenMPI (1.6 and up),
    Intel MPI (5.0 and up), MPICH2, MPICH3, Bullx MPI, MVAPICH2 and Cray MPI.

    Licences are now tied to architectures.  x86_64 and i686 are taken as defaults if no
    architectures are specified in the licence file.

    Fixed CUDA 7.5 not working on Cray systems.

    Output CPU and accelerator energy (Wh) in csv reports.

    Output Performance report metrics to DCIM (e.g. Ganglia) through customisable script.

    Performance reports will no longer show spurious TopologyFile::readEntry
    warnings on some systems.

    Programs that dynamically load OpenMP at runtime will no longer crash.
    
    If a system does not have have I/O accounting enabled for all filesystems
    Performance Reports will fall back to reporting only Lustre I/O.

    Added support for Platform MPI to Express Launch mode.

    Programs using Platform MPI will now have their working directory set correctly.

    Added support for statically linking the profiler libraries on Cray systems
    that are using binutils >= 2.25.

    Added automatic SLURM detection on Cray.

    Fixed an issue that could cause unnecessary sampling overhead when profiled
    program makes redundant calls to dlopen or dlclose.

    Include stat/lstat/fstat calls in I/O metrics.
    
    Prevent spurious "Maximum backtrace size in sampler exceeded, stack too deep."
    messages appearing.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.0.6: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix incorrectly reported number of nodes in Express Launch mode.

    Fix CPU breakdown being incorrect for codes with large functions.

    Fix sampler not being able to recover from minor errors
    due to the debugger intercepting any signals raised

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.0.5: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix failing startup when using SLURM in some configurations because of
    premature job termination.

   Fixed an issue that could cause Cray OpenMP programs to segfault.

    Added support for SHMEM programs using shmem_init.

    Fixed an issue that caused CPU instruction metrics to be lower than expected
    for some GPU runs.

    Fix long MAP analysis times for some SLURM configurations when processes
    are bound to a single core on a node.

    Fixed an issue that could cause jobs to time-out early for some SLURM
    configurations.

    Cray MPI will now be correctly auto-detected if Intel MPI is also in the
    path on Cray machines.

    Performance Reports will no longer erroneously detect a Xeon Phi card if the
    driver is installed but no card or cross-compilation environment is present.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.0.4: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix bullx MPI startup.

    Fix express launch for SGI MPT.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.0.3: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix an issue that caused performance reports to crash when sampling
    an application that uses pthreads on RHEL 5.

    Reduce the number of queries for user and group information made by the
    back end start-up on Cray systems.

    Fix duplicate entries for MPI call MPI_Bcast error.

    Fix assertion failure `a.tv_nsec < 1000000000'.
    
    Improve SIGPROF signal handler error messages.

    Fix Python environment variables.

    Add support for setting environment variables in --mpiargs with MVAPICH2
    and mpirun_rsh.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.0.2: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Reduce the number of queries for user and group information made by the
    back end start-up on Cray systems.

    Fix an issue that prevented compilation of static wrapper libraries.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.0.1: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix conflict between Performance Reports and profiled programs that have
    a global variable called "data".

    Added support for reading compute node power usage via IPMI power sensors.
    See http://www.allinea.com/ipmi-energy-agent for more details.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 6.0:

    Support for CUDA 7.5

    Profiling support for OpenSHMEM.

    Fix an issue that could prevent Performance Reports from working when NULL
    was passed to certain MPI functions.

    Fix an issue that could cause Performance Reports to abort if exit was
    called from a non-main thread.

Changes since Allinea Performance Reports 5.1:

    5.1-45173: Bug fix

    - Facilitate stopping at MPI_Init when the call is in a dynamic library that is opened with dlopen()
      by using the MPI_INIT and MPI_INIT_PENDING environment variables.

    5.1-45057: Bug fix

    - Fix bug that caused Performance Reports to interfere with programs that
      passed 64 bit file offsets or counts to certain MPI functions.

    5.1-44970: Bug fix

    - Improve performance of the analysis phase.
    - Fix bug that caused some MPI methods to fail under Performance Reports
      when passed a NULL pointer from Fortran.
    - Fix bug that caused Performance Reports to incorrectly process some
      functions when they were passed MPI_IN_PLACE.
    - Fix bug that caused Performance Report to wrap MPI_Wait incorrectly.
    - Fix bug that caused Performance Report to wrap MPI_File_iwrite_shared
      incorrectly.
    - Fix bug that caused MPI_Status parameters to be incorrectly handled by the
      wrapper.

    5.1-44795: Bug fix

    - Fix bug that caused one process per node to run much slower and to increase
      the job wallclock time (because pmi_proxy was running at 100%).

    5.1-44229: Bug fix

    - Fix failure to launch CUDA jobs when auto-detection fails.

    5.1-44076: Bug fix

    - Fix failure to launch CUDA jobs when using SLURM(MPMD).

    5.1-43967: Bug fix

    - Fix MPI wrapper for Fortran MPI_File_* functions.

    5.1-43812: Bug fix

    - Fix issue launching IntelMPI jobs via Slurm.
    - Fix back-end debugger selection when the MPI_COMPILER environment variable
      is set.

    5.1-43607: Bug fix

    - Give the mpirun specified by the ALLINEA_MPIRUN environment variable precedence
      over any mpirun in the path.
    - Fix stack limit bug, causing "Thread creation error: Resource
      temporarily unavailable" messages.

    5.1-43373: Bug fix

    - Fix timeout on some network configurations, caused by the backend not 
      trying all known addresses when connecting to the frontend.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 5.1:

    Debugging and profiling support for RHEL 7 x86_64.
    Debugging and profiling support for SLES 12 x86_64.
    CUDA 5.5 support has been removed.
    PGI 13.x is no longer a tested combination.

    Energy section added to Performance Reports output (requires Energy Pack
    add-on).

    Removed SSH requirement for MPICH 2 and 3 and Intel MPI.

Changes since Performance Reports 5.0.1:

    5.0.1-43279: Bug fix

    - Fix "did not reach MPIR_Breakpoint within 10000 events" bug.

    5.0.1-43160: Bug fix

    - Fix rare crash in GDB (htab_find <- find_subfile ...).

    5.0.1-42607: Bug fix

    - Fix intermittent startup failure on Cray X-series and Bluegene systems.

    5.0.1-42253: Bug fix

    - Fix failure to obtain I/O metrics.
    - Fix sampler stopping on a process in MPI only code.
    - Fix physical core utilization bar being stuck at 100%.

    5.0.1-42034: Bug fix

    - Fix GDB-762 segfault on Fedora-19.

    5.0.1-41963: Bug fix

    - Avoid terminating PlatformMPI's mpirun with SIGTERM when ending a session
      as this may result in the termination of the enclosing queue submission
      script.

    5.0.1-41883: Bug fix

    - Fix rare crash in GDB when looking up an undefined symbol.

    5.0.1-41707: Bug fix

    - Allow floating licences to specify the ports available for use by Allinea
      Performance Reports.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 5.0.1:

    Involuntary Context Switches metric replaced with System Load.

    Platform MPI support.

    CUDA metrics for Allinea MAP and Allinea Performance Reports.

Changes since Performance Reports 5.0:

    5.0-41541: Bug fixes

    - Fix profiler library 'allinea_type_size' linker error.

    5.0-41375: Bug fix

    - Prevent abort in the MPI wrapper in functions with arguments of type
      MPI_Datatype when given the value MPI_DATATYPE_NULL.

    5.0-40982: Bug fix

    - Prevent GDB getting into an infinite loop when a class has a class-scope member
      of its own type and the base class also has such a member with the same name.

    5.0-40932: Bug fix

    - Fix detection of when sampler library has been statically linked to target
      executable.

Changes for Allinea Performance Reports 5.0:

    Support for multiple threads. OpenMP section added to reports.

    Replaced make-map-*-libraries and make-profiler-*-libraries scripts with a
    single make-profiler-libraries script.

    Support for SGI MPT and SLURM.
