RELEASE NOTES 2017-07-26

Current issues for latest release:

    MAP:
      I/O metrics are not available on some systems, including Cray systems.
      CPU instruction metrics are only available on x86_64 systems.
      Thread activity is not sampled whilst a process is inside an MPI call
      with a duration spanning multiple samples.

    MPICH 3:
      MPICH 3.0.3 and 3.0.4 do not work with the Allinea Forge due to an MPICH
      defect. MPICH 3.1 is fully supported.

    Open MPI:
      Message queue debugging does not work in Open MPI 1.8.1 to 1.8.5. This
      issue is fixed in Open MPI 1.8.6.

    CUDA:
      To debug CUDA programs the version of the CUDA driver must match the
      version of the CUDA toolkit used to compile your program. For example
      if the CUDA 6.5 driver is installed then you must use the CUDA 6.5
      toolkit to compile your program. You may the ALLINEA_FORCE_CUDA_VERSION to
      force DDT to use a particular version of CUDA debugger, e.g. by
      setting ALLINEA_FORCE_CUDA_VERSION=6.5 for CUDA 6.5, but this is unlikely
      to work.

      Cray CCE 8.1.2 OpenACC and previous releases will fail to
      generate local variables in accelerated regions. Please install
      CCE 8.1.3.

    SLURM:
      On Cray X-series systems only 'native' SLURM is suported - 'hybrid' mode
      is not supported.

    PGI compilers:
      Version 14.9 or later of the PGI compilers is required to compile the
      Allinea MAP MPI wrappers as a static library.

    64-bit ARM/POWER platforms:
      For best operation, DDT and MAP require debug symbols for the runtime
      libraries to be installed in addition to debug symbols for the program
      itself.

    Invisible user guide (F1 - User Guide) - some stale files appear to be able
    to corrupt the Qt document browser. If "F1" leads to invisible documents,
    please remove these cached files by typing:
      rm -r ~/.local/share/data/Allinea

Changes for Allinea Forge 7.0.6:

    Add pretty-printers for debugging Qt 5 strings.

    Updated recommended Intel compiler flags (user guide section E6).

    Fixed a bug affecting --stop-after on some SLES 11 systems.

Changes for Allinea Forge 7.0.5:

    Fix OS/X application signing.

    Fix missing identifiers in Fortran derived data types.

    Improve support for breakpoints in functions without debug info on little-endian PowerPC systems.

    Fix a conflict with the Cray C++ STL library when using static linking.

Changes for Allinea Forge 7.0.4:

    Fix an issue with dlsym under IBM Spectrum MPI that affected profiling of hybrid MPI+OpenMP codes.

Changes for Allinea Forge 7.0.3:

    Add support for shmem_init_thread() to DDT.

    Fix issue related to Intel KNL high bandwidth memory debugging.
    
Changes for Allinea Forge 7.0.2:

    Allow attaching to SLURM jobs when srun is wrapped in a script.

    New I/O functions tracked: pread_nocancel and pwrite_nocancel.

    Add auto-detection support for PlatformMPI 9.1.4.2.
    
    Include cumulative memory statistics for hbw_memalign and hbw_realloc.

    Add MP_IN_PLACE and MPI_BOTTOM support to SGI MPT wrappers.

    Fix a rare crash in offline mode.

    Include metrics SDK documentation in map/metrics/doc/.

Changes for Allinea Forge 7.0.1:

    Call allinea_plugin_cleanup in custom metrics at the end of a profiling job.

    Make a "onePerNode" attribute available for custom metrics that should only collect
    one process of each node.

    Fix a bug that prevented high-bandwidth memory allocations being tracked correctly.

    Fix an issue that caused incorrect summation values in some tooltips.

Changes for Allinea Forge 7.0:

    Add metrics to MAP based on PAPI counters, including rates of cache misses,
    FLOPS and cycles per instruction.
    
    Add Lustre metadata metrics to the Advanced Metrics Pack add-on.

    Allow profiling of programs that use MPI_THREAD_MULTIPLE and MPI_THREAD_SERIALIZED (MPI calls
    tracked on main thread only).
    
    DDT and MAP now support Spectrum MPI (mpirun mode) for IBM Power (PPC64le
    little-endian, POWER8).

    MAP profiler data can now be exported as JSON for use with continuous integration and
    regression testing systems.

    Totals across all processes / nodes now appear in the metric graph tooltips in MAP.

    Provide module files to simplify static and dynamic linking of the Allinea profiler libraries
    on the Cray (in share/modules/cray).

    DDT now decorates the memory allocations displayed in both the Memory Usage and
    Memory Statistics dialogs with memory kind data.

    Enhance display of Fortran multi-dimensional arrays.

    Add support for preloading custom metrics libraries to MAP.

    Fix issue with reverse connect feature being blocked by some firewalls.

    Fix the pointer details dialog not working for some class, struct and union types.

    Fix reported location for function breakpoints when restoring a debugging session in DDT.

    Fix CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES value for srun launch.

    Fix an issue in which Job Submission Settings were not saved in session files.

    Fix a linker error on some Cray systems that occured when explicitly linking Allinea libraries.

    Categorise OpenACC-CUDA functions as GPU functions.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.1.2:

    Fix missing metrics when using MAP via remote launch or reverse connect.

    Fix crash when another profile is loaded after zooming in the metrics view.

    Fix the current line(s) view not working when a file is closed and reopened
    in DDT.

    Fix detection of overwrites of reserved memory in the memory debugger.

    Fix CUDA thread selection when stepping through warp.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.1.1:

    Fix a case where standard input would not be forwarded during
    non-interactive sessions when the source was a file on a Lustre filesystem.

    Add support for profiling programs where all MPI communication takes place
    on a single non-main thread.

    Fix an issue where CUDA runtime and driver version mismatches were sometimes
    silently ignored.

    Fix an issue with the memory debugger deadlocking on some platforms when one
    thread frees memory from dlclose while another thread is allocating or
    freeing memory.

    Fix an issue where a deallocation trace would sometimes be shown for a
    newly allocated object when freed memory was reused.

    Fix an issue which prevented expressions from being used in the MDA viewer
    if a language had been set.

    Fix an issue with the Ctrl+K stopping working when switching tools.

    Fix an issue that prevented the graphical installer working on Suse 12.

    Remove the temporary .build directories for the precompiled MPI wrappers.

    Address a debugger start up problem affecting Intel MPI, MPICH, MVAPICH and generic
    MPI users.

    Fix crash on startup for Cray systems with an old version of wlm_detect.

    Fix multiple compilers being used to compile MPI wrappers.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.1:

    Debugging and profiling support for Knights Landing (KNL) Xeon Phi product family.

    Support for CUDA 8.0.

    Enable CUDA support on POWER.

    Lustre I/O metrics added to MAP.

    Preloading the Allinea profiler libraries is now supported for dynamically
    linked programs on Cray X-Series / Cray MPT systems.

    Preloading the Allinea profiler libraries and DDT memory debugging library
    when using Slurm versions older than 14.11 is now supported.

    Precompiled Allinea MPI wrappers now provided for OpenMPI (1.6 and up),
    Intel MPI (5.0 and up), MPICH2, MPICH3, Bullx MPI, MVAPICH2 and Cray MPI.

    In DDT's offline log, display the local variables and stack arguments for a configurable
    number of stack frames under every stack.

    For dangling pointers, display the stack at the point of deallocation in the Pointer Details
    window.

    Highlight dangling pointers in the Cross-Process Comparison and Cross-Thread Comparison
    windows.

    The command-line arguments for DDT offline logs are now consistent
    with those for creating MAP profile files. To start DDT in offline
    mode, use the --offline flag. DDT will generate an HTML offline
    log with an automatically chosen filename. Optionally, you can add
    "--output=<filename>" to direct the output to a particular text or HTML file.
    Warning: Existing batch scripts that use the "--offline log.html" syntax must be
    changed to use the new "--offline --output=log.html" syntax.

    Add support in DDT's disassembly view for 64-bit POWER specific instructions.

    Include stat/lstat/fstat calls in MAP's I/O metrics.

    MAP supports functions export in profiling mode.

    Mac OS X client installer is now signed.

    Licences are now tied to architectures.  x86_64 and i686 are taken as defaults if no
    architectures are specified in the licence file.

    Fix CUDA 7.5 not working on some Cray systems.

    Fix missing OpenMP thread IDs in Cross-Thread Comparison window.

    Forge will no longer show spurious TopologyFile::readEntry warnings on some
    systems.

    Programs that dynamically load OpenMP at runtime will no longer crash.

    Fix array viewer modifying lower bounds whilst user is still typing
    maximum bounds.

    Fix an issue that would cause memory debugging to hang on ARMv8 (aarch64) systems.

    Add support for Platform MPI to Express Launch mode.

    Programs using Platform MPI will now have their working directory set correctly.

    Add support for statically linking the profiler libraries on Cray systems
    that are using binutils >= 2.25.

    Add automatic SLURM detection on Cray.

    Add support for UPC and CAF programs on Cray systems using native SLURM.

    Memory allocations are aligned correctly for SSE data types when guard
    pages are set to "after".

    Fix incorrectly reported number of nodes in summary and program details.

    Fix "--nodes" command line argument handling.

    Fix an issue that could cause unnecessary sampling overhead when profiled
    program makes redundant calls to dlopen or dlclose.

    Prevent spurious "Maximum backtrace size in sampler exceeded, stack too deep."
    messages appearing when running MAP.
    
    Updates to example QTF files.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0.6: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix --check-bounds not working correctly.

    Fix incorrectly reported number of nodes in Express Launch mode.

    Wrap shmem_init() when profiling in MAP.

    Fix the displayed value of Fortran module variables that are used in one
    shared library but that were defined in another.

    Fix the sorting of numerical columns in the message queue viewer.

    Fix negative timestamps in tracepoint logs.

    Fix CPU instruction metrics being incorrect for codes with large functions.

    Fix pause not working with IBM PE.

    Fix sampler not being able to recover from minor errors due to the debugger
    intercepting any signals raised.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0.5: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix an issue that could cause Cray OpenMP programs to crash under MAP.

    Add support in MAP for SHMEM programs using shmem_init.

    Fix the stacks view being blank when using "step threads together" with
    OpenMP programs.

    Fix an issue that caused CPU instruction metrics to be lower than expected
    for some GPU runs.

    Fix an issue that could cause jobs to time-out early for some SLURM
    configurations.

    Fix OpenMP control threads appearing in the stack when stepping threads
    together.

    Cray MPI will now be correctly auto-detected if Intel MPI is also in the
    path on Cray machines.

    Forge will no longer erroneously detect a Xeon Phi card if the driver is
    installed but no card or cross-compilation environment is present.

    Fix long MAP analysis times for some SLURM configurations when processes
    are bound to a single core on a node.

    Fix Fortran string printing when using the GNU compiler.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0.6: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix CPU instruction metrics being incorrect for codes with large functions.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0.4: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix bullx MPI startup.

    Fix express launch for SGI MPT.

    Fix indexing when exporting data as CSV from the multi-dimensional array
    viewer.

    Fix incorrect values being displayed for Fortran arrays when resizing
    the multi-dimensional array viewer.

    Fix opening old MAP (4.2) files on Windows and Mac OS X.

    Fix file sorting when using the remote client.

    Fix bug with pointer detection in the cross process/thread comparison.

    Fix memory debugging library detection when using DDT offline. 

    Honour the order of source directories in the session file.

    Improve CUDA version detection.

    Fix a bug for BullxMPI support.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0.3: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix express launch for SGI MPT.

    Fix an issue that caused Allinea Forge to crash when sampling
    an application that uses pthreads on RHEL 5.

    Reduce the number of queries for user and group information made by the
    back end start-up on Cray systems.

    Fix assertion failure `a.tv_nsec < 1000000000'.

    Improve SIGPROF signal handler error messages.

    Fix an issue where the user would be informed that their source code was
    newer than their executable erroneously.

    Fix Python environment variables.

    Add support for setting environment variables in --mpiargs with MVAPICH2
    and mpirun_rsh.

    Fix NUM_NODES_TAG (and other tags) being incorrectly handled in some QTF
    files.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0.2: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Reduce the number of queries for user and group information made by the
    back end start-up on Cray systems.

    Fix an issue that prevented compilation of static wrapper libraries.

    Fix duplicate entries for MPI call MPI_Bcast error.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0.1: Rollup of previous bug fixes.

    Fix remote connect issue when local licence had "remote-mic" option but
    remote system is not a MIC node.

    Fix conflict between MAP and profiled programs that have a global variable
    called "data".

    Fix NUM_NODES_TAG which was always replaced with 0.

    Add support for reading compute node power usage via IPMI power sensors.
    See http://www.allinea.com/ipmi-energy-agent for more details.

Changes for Allinea Forge 6.0:

    Support for CUDA 7.5

    Fix multiple CUDA issues.

    Support for periodically writing snapshots to the offline log in DDT.
    Support for using a signal to trigger the writing of a snapshot to the offline log.

    Extend memory debugging to display stacks for the deallocation of memory as well as
    its allocation.

    Allow expressions for DDT's Evaluation window to be specified on the command line.

    Two hop remote connections now work with the Windows remote client when installed
    in a directory with spaces in.

    Fix source code viewer's handling of source files in libraries.

    Profiling support for 64-bit ARM platforms (aarch64).
    Profiling support for 64-bit Power platforms (ppc64le).
    Profiling support for OpenSHMEM.

    Add interface for users to define custom metrics for profiling.

    CPU instruction metrics can be viewed for individual source lines.

    Allow existing MAP files to be viewed without a licence.

    Fix MAP's classification of OpenMP worker threads.

    Fix an issue that could prevent MAP from working when NULL was passed to
    certain MPI functions.

    Fix an issue that could cause MAP to abort if exit was called from a
    non-main thread.

    Performance enhancements to retrieving variable data types in DDT.

Changes since Allinea Forge 5.1:

    5.1-45317: Bug fix
    - Fix bug that caused DDT to forget breakpoints when tracepoints are loaded from a *.dbf file.

    5.1-45173: Bug fix

    - Facilitate stopping at MPI_Init when the call is in a dynamic library that is opened with dlopen()
      by using the MPI_INIT and MPI_INIT_PENDING environment variables.

    5.1-45057: Bug fix

    - Fix bug that caused MAP to interfere with programs that passed 64 bit
      file offsets or counts to certain MPI functions.

    5.1-45035: Bug fix

    - Fix bug that prevented restoring breakpoints, expressions etc.
      from a previous session on CRAY.

    5.1-44970: Bug fix

    - Improve performance of MAP's analysis phase.
    - Fix bug that caused some MPI methods to fail under MAP when passed a
      NULL pointer from Fortran.
    - Fix bug that caused MAP to incorrectly process some functions when they
      were passed MPI_IN_PLACE.
    - Fix bug that caused MAP to wrap MPI_Wait incorrectly.
    - Fix bug that caused MAP to wrap MPI_File_iwrite_shared incorrectly.
    - Fix bug that caused MPI_Status parameters to be incorrectly handled by the
      wrapper.

    5.1-44795: Bug fix

    - Fix bug that caused one process per node to run much slower and to increase
      the job wallclock time in MAP (because pmi_proxy was running at 100%).

    5.1-44403: Bug fix and enhancement

    - Add environment variable (ALLINEA_REVERSE_CONNECT_DIR) for specifying shared directory used by reverse connect feature.
    - Fix problem debugging single character Fortran variables compiled with ifort.

    5.1-44291: Bug fix.

    - Fix failure on 5.1 remote client compatibility.

    5.1-44229: Bug fix

    - Fix failure to launch CUDA jobs when auto-detection fails.

    5.1-44076: Bug fix

    - Fix failure to launch CUDA jobs when using SLURM(MPMD).

    5.1-44122: GDB Bug fix

    - Fix bug in GDB where VDSO was not correctly read.

    5.1-43967: Bug fix and enhancement

    - Fix logging when using Reverse Connect.
    - Fix topology file bug that could cause a startup failure.
    - Fix problems evaluating Fortran modules when memory debugging enabled.
    - Fix MPI wrapper for Fortran MPI_File_* functions.
    - Improve thread sparkline performance.

    5.1-43857: Bug fix

    - Fix failure to add a watchpoint on an element of a Fortran allocatable array.
    - Fix problem with obtaining bounds of Fortran allocable array in debugger for gfortran generated code

    5.1-43812: Bug fix

    - Fix issue launching IntelMPI jobs via Slurm.
    - Fix back-end debugger selection when the MPI_COMPILER environment variable
      is set.

    5.1-43629: Bug fix

    - Fix MAP functions view not displaying total time.
    - Fix logbook only working on first session per launch of Forge.
    - Fix for source code browse button to show directory based on configuration.

    5.1-43607: Bug fix

    - Give the mpirun specified by the ALLINEA_MPIRUN environment variable precedence
      over any mpirun in the path.
    - Fix stack limit bug, causing "Thread creation error: Resource
      temporarily unavailable" messages.

    5.1-43373: Bug fix

    - Fix timeout on some network configurations, caused by the backend not
      trying all known addresses when connecting to the frontend.

Changes for Allinea Forge 5.1:

    Debugging and profiling support for RHEL 7 x86_64.
    Debugging and profiling support for SLES 12 x86_64.
    Debugging support for 64-bit ARM platforms (aarch64).
    Debugging support for 64-bit POWER platforms using the PPC64le/ELFv2 ABI
    (ppc64le).
    CUDA 5.5 support has been removed.
    PGI 13.x is no longer a tested combination.

    Reverse Connect allows connecting back to the user interface from a queue
    script or interactive allocation making Forge easy to use with your existing
    queue scripts.

    Energy metrics added to Allinea MAP (requires Energy Pack add-on).

    MAP profiling may be restricted to a given portion of the program's run time.

    Horizontal and vertical zoom added to the MAP metric views.

    .map files store the first and last few lines of program output.

    Removed SSH requirement for using Express Launch with MPICH 2 and 3 and
    Intel MPI.

    Unresponsive remote connections are reaped when a new one is made in order
    to free up licence tokens used by dropped connections.

Changes since Allinea Forge 5.0.1:

    5.0.1-43279: Bug fix

    - Fix "did not reach MPIR_Breakpoint within 10000 events" bug.

    5.0.1-43242: Bug fix

    - Exclude Python byte code files from backend tarballs as this causes issues
      with file permissions.

    5.0.1-43160: Bug fix

    - Fix "did not reach MPIR_Breakpoint within 10000 events" bug.
    - Fix rare crash in GDB (htab_find <- find_subfile ...).
    - Improve shared symbol file creation handling on BG/Q.

    5.0.1-43113: Bug fix

    - Fix very slow MAP analysis on some systems.
    - Fix bug in remote daemon which could prevent the licence check from
      running.

    5.0.1-43066: Bug fix

    - Optimize variable printing speed of deeply nested C++ classes in DDT.

    5.0.1-43050: Bug fix

    - Fix multidimensional array visualization when GUI node and compute node
      byte-order differs.

    5.0.1-42987: Bug fix

    - Fix persistence of the always look for source files locally option in user
      configuration.

    5.0.1-42956: Bug fix

    - Fix issue finding runjob when attaching on a Bluegene/Q system.

    5.0.1-42895: Enhancement

    - Add environment variable ALLINEA_DISABLE_THREAD_SPARKLINES to disable
      thread sparklines in situations when they are making DDT unresponsive.

    5.0.1-42776: Bug fix

    - Fix GDB handling a fork+exec when default breakpoint 'stop on exec' is not
      set while 'stop on fork' is.

    5.0.1-42708: Bug fix

    - Release floating licences when the remote daemon exits due to the
      client unexpectedly disconnecting.
    - Fix function evaluations and Fortran function argument passing.

    5.0.1-42607: Bug fix

    - Faster, more responsive and more stable remote client.
    - Fix intermittent startup failure on Cray X-series and Bluegene systems.

    5.0.1-42591: Bug fix

    - Fix GDB handling of Fortran array subscription and function calls when
      short-circuiting the RHS of a logical .AND. or .OR. .

    5.0.1-42365: Bug fix

    - Add workaround for buggy compilers that emit invalid DWARF indirect string
      offsets.

    5.0.1-42253: Bug fix

    - Fix update of remote client GUI when configuration reloaded.
    - Add validation to matrix_mult example.
    - Fix Mac remote client freezing when viewing GPU memory usage in DDT.
    - Fix failure to obtain I/O metrics.
    - Fix segfault when rapidly clicking on DDT's process group widget.
    - Fix sampler stopping on a process in MPI only code.
    - Fix OpenMP checkbox missing from Run window after tool switching from DDT
      to MAP.
    - Fix Cray start up issue due to DDT re-enabling memory debugging preload.

    5.0.1-42095: Bug fix

    - Add write-only watchpoints by default.

    5.0.1-42034: Bug fix

    - Fix GDB-762 segfault on Fedora-19.

    5.0.1-42032: Bug fix

    - Fix segfault when double-clicking empty area in logbook.

    5.0.1-41963: Bug fix

    - Avoid terminating PlatformMPI's mpirun with SIGTERM when ending a session
      as this may result in the termination of the enclosing queue submission
      script.

    5.0.1-41883: Bug fix

    - Fix rare crash in GDB when looking up an undefined symbol.

    5.0.1-41707: Bug fix

    - Allow floating licences to specify the ports available for use by Allinea
      Forge.

Changes for Allinea Forge 5.0.1:

    Support for CUDA 7.0

    CUDA metrics for Allinea MAP and Allinea Performance Reports.

Changes since Allinea Forge 5.0:

    5.0-41664: Bug fix

    - Enable dereferencing of pointers in some STL containers in DDT (e.g.
      stl::vector and stl::set).

    5.0-41628: Bug fix

    - Fix updating of the 'selected frame' highlighting displayed by DDT's PSV.

    5.0-41541: Bug fixes

    - Fix profiler library 'allinea_type_size' linker error.

    5.0-41402: Bug fix

    - Fix display of std::unique_ptr variables.

    5.0-41375: Bug fix

    - Prevent abort in the MPI wrapper in functions with arguments of type
      MPI_Datatype when given the value MPI_DATATYPE_NULL.

    5.0-41047: Bug fix

    - Attempt to display a file and approximate line number for the entry point of a
      profiled program if the exact line number is not specified in the program's
      DWARF.

    5.0-40983: Bug fix

    - Allow preloading the sampler library for non-MPI programs on Cray

    5.0-40982: Bug fix

    - Prevent GDB getting into an infinite loop when a class has a class-scope member
      of its own type and the base class also has such a member with the same name.

    5.0-40932: Bug fix

    - Fix detection of when sampler library has been statically linked to target
      executable.

    5.0-40901: Bug fix

    - Fix missing MAP metrics when profiling native Xeon Phi programs.

    5.0-40881: Bug fix

    - Fix positioning of the 'Overall Memory Statistics' window.

Changes for Allinea Forge 5.0:

    Allinea Forge unified branding.

    Edit and recompile from within DDT and MAP.

    MAP profiles multiple threads and supports OpenMP regions.

    Flat profile Function view in MAP. Time glyphs removed from Project Files
    view.

    Replaced make-map-*-libraries and make-profiler-*-libraries scripts with a
    single make-profiler-libraries script.

    Sparklines for OpenMP threads in DDT 'Focus on Process' mode.

    Offline logs now include source code snippets and an optional memory leak
    report.

    Multi-Dimensional Array Viewer supports staggered arrays.

    Scalable startup for SLURM, including 'native' SLURM support for Cray
    X-series.

    Window setup executable is signed.

    'Magnified mode' no longer used on Mac OS X for retina displays.

    CAPS HMPP support removed.
